The objective of the circuit breaker measures is to significantly reduce movements and social interactions, especially for seniors who are more vulnerable to COVID-19 infection.Grandparents can continue to care for their grandchildren if the grandchildren stay with them throughout this period. We strongly urge seniors to stay at home and avoid going out. You should not drop off your children with their grandparents on a daily basis as this increases the risk of transmission. However, exemptions can be made if you belong to one of the following groups:Both parents are essential service workers and unable to work from home;One parent is a healthcare professional (e.g. doctor, nurse, allied health professional, support care staff) and is unable to work from home; andOne parent is an essential service worker who is unable to work from home, and have a child/children below the age of three.Individuals can still visit elderly family members to assist with their daily needs if there is no one else living with them who can do so. Where possible, we strongly recommend for family members to support their elderly relatives who do not stay with them by keeping in contact through phone or video calls, or bringing them groceries, food and other essential supplies to assist with their daily needs. This is to avoid seniors having to make trips out of the home for such activities.Social gatherings, such as private parties and social get-togethers with friends and relatives and family members not within the same household, are disallowed.
Online applicants of the Temporary Relief Fund who have previously indicated that they would like to apply for COVID-19 Support Grant and have submitted the relevant documents* would not have to submit any application form for the COVID-19 Support Grant when applications open. Instead, MSF will assess their eligibility for the COVID-19 Support Grantand contact them for additional information as required.  Temporary Relief Fund applicants who had applied at the Community Centres or SSOs, and indicated that they wanted to apply for COVID-19 Support Grant will receive an SMS inviting them to apply for the COVID-19 Support Grant online.  Individuals who had not previously expressed that they would like to apply for the COVID-19 Support Grant will need to submit a new online application for the COVID-19 Support Grant.  *Mandatory documents include:• Relevant documents indicating loss of job, being placed on involuntary NPL or reduction of at least 30% salary for at least three consecutive months, such as Retrenchment letter, contract termination, letter from employer (e.g. indicating loss of least 30% of salary for at least three consecutive months), payslip(s) or CPF contribution statement(s) showing last drawn monthly salary, before loss of job, being placed on involuntary NPL or loss of at least 30% of your salary;• Payslip(s) or CPF contribution statement(s) showing monthly salary, after loss of at least 30% of your salary for at least three consecutive months and• Scanned copy of the first page of your bank book / bank statement / bank slip indicating your bank account name and number
MSF and PA have received more than 100,000 applications for the Temporary Relief Fund. We will do our best to process all applications as soon as possible. For applicants who: Applied online via go.gov.sg/temporary-relief-fund They will be notified of the outcome via SMS.Applied at a Social Service Office (SSO)If their application is successful, applicants will be notified by SMS or phone call to collect their cheque.If their application is unsuccessful, applicants will be notified via SMS.Applied at a Community Club/ Centre (CC)If they are successful and:if they indicated the preference to receive assistance via PayNow, applicants who indicatedpreference to receive assistance via PayNow will receive a notification from the PayNowservice, when the assistance has been credited into their account.If they indicated the preference to receive assistance via crossed cheque, applicants will benotified by their CC to collect their cheque.If they are unsuccessful: applicants will be notified via SMS.
For those with general anxiety or stress, you may call the National CARE Hotline (Tel: 62026868) for support. For those experiencing marital or parenting stress, you may wish to contact CPH Online Counselling at www.cphonlinecounselling.sg. Live chat: Mon-Fri 9am-9pm From 13 Apr 2020, Sat 10am-2pm(except public holidays) Email: Anytime, counsellor will respond within 3 working days
The eligibility criteria for the COVID-19 Support Grant are as follows:Singapore Citizen or Permanent Resident aged 16 and aboveFull-time or part-time employee affected by the economic impact of COVID-19 (loss of job/reduction in salary or start of involuntary no pay leave (NPL) should have occurred after 23 Jan 2020):Presently unemployed due to retrenchment/contract termination;Presently on involuntary NPL for a period of at least three consecutive months (e.g. Mar - May 2020, May - Jul 2020); orPresently experiencing reduced monthly salary of at least 30%, for a period of at least three consecutive months (e.g. Mar - May 2020, May - Jul 2020)Prior gross monthly household income of ≤$10,000 or monthly per capita income of ≤ $3,100Live in a property with annual value of ≤$21,000Not on ComCare Short-to-Medium-Term Assistance or Long-Term AssistanceHas not already recieved, or is currently not receiving the COVID-19 Support Grant or the Self-Employed Persons Income Relief Scheme (SIRS).Full-time National Servicemen and interns are not eligibleIf you meet the above criteria, you may apply online at go.gov.sg/CSG from 04 May 2020 between 9am to 6pm daily!
Yes, ComCare/ Temporary Relief Fund/ COVID-19 Support Grant recipients can still receive Courage Fund.
No, the relief under Courage Fund Scheme for affected households is provided once for eachhousehold, regardless of the number of household members who contracted COVID-19 or wereon a Quarantine Order/ Leave of Absence/ Stay-Home Notice or the number of times a householdmember is placed under a Quarantine Order/ Leave of Absence/ Stay-Home Notice.
Applicants are advised to contact their bank to find out branch details. Below are the steps to determine bank branch details for some banks (applicants should check with their respective banks for latest information). For POSB account holders (9-digit account number): Bank Code: 7171 Branch Code: 081 Branch Name: POSB Bank Ltd. For DBS account holders (10-digit account number): Bank Code: 7171 Branch Code: First 3 digits of your DBS account number. For example for account no. 123-4-567890 the Branch Code is 123 Branch Name: DBS Bank Ltd. For OCBC account holders (10 or 12-digit account number): Bank Code: 7339 Branch Code: The first three numbers of your OCBC account number are branch codes. Example of OCBC Bank account numbers: 555-1-234567 where 555 is the branch code 501-123956-001 where 501 is the branch code For UOB account holders (10-digit account number): Bank Code: 7375 Branch Code: Please use the first 3 digits of your UOB account number and refer to Appendix A to retrieve the corresponding bank and branch code from the following document http://www.uob.com.sg/assets/pdfs/global/achcode.pdf. For example: For account 101-123-456-7, please use 101 to refer to Appendix A to retrieve the Bank Code 7375 and Branch code 001.
Besides lower-income household whose family member(s) have contracted COVID-19 or are on Stay-Home Notice, Leave of Absence or Home Quarantine Order, the Courage Fund will also support (i) dependents of individuals who contract COVID-19, and (ii) healthcare workers, frontline workers and community volunteers who contract the virus in the course of duty. For more details, please refer to the following NCSS website: https://www.ncss.gov.sg/Our-Initiatives/The-Courage-Fund.
No, the relief is for those who have been directly affected by COVID-19 and who were issued official QOs/SHNs/LOAs by MOH, MOM or employers.
Yes. Each individual family member who fulfils the eligibility criteria is eligible for support under the COVID-19 Support Grant.
Yes. Applicants who have multiple jobs affected by COVID-19 should report this accordingly in their application forms. The amount of grant will be based on the sum of the last drawn basic monthly salary of the affected jobs capped at $800/month. For applicants who have lost their job(s) or are placed on involuntary NPL, i.e. have no work income, the amount of grant is capped at $800 per month. For applicants who had their monthly salary reduced by at least 30% every month for at least three consecutive months, the amount of grant is capped at $500 per month. This grant is capped at a lower amount as applicants still have some work income.
The COVID-19 Support Grant is for full-time or part-time employees with valid employment contracts. Daily-rated/ad-hoc workers who do not have employment contracts or CPF contributions are not considered full-time or part-time employees. Daily-rated/ad-hoc workers who require financial assistance may approach their nearest Social Service Offices (SSOs) (go.gov.sg/locate-sso) to apply for financial assistance. Comcare provides financial assistance and comprehensive support to low-income individuals and families (with monthly household income of $1,900 and below, or a per capita income of $650 and below). If their income exceeds these guidelines, they may still approach the SSOs if they face financial difficulties. The SSOs will assess their circumstances and needs, and provide assistance accordingly.
The COVID-19 Support Grant is for full-time or part-time employees. SEPs such as insurance agents, real estate agents, freelancers (including delivery riders), hawkers, taxi drivers/private-hire car drivers, are not eligible for COVID-19 Support Grant. SEPs may qualify for the SEP income Relief Scheme (SIRS) instead. (https://www.ntuc.com.sg/SIRS)
Yes, if they have a regular, full- or part-time job with a valid employment contract.
No, ComCare beneficiaries will continue to receive comprehensive support for their basic living expenses, including cash assistance, assistance with household bills, and assistance with medical bills. Existing ComCare beneficiaries whose assistance is ending by July 2020 will have their assistance extended for a further six months without review, waiving the need for submission of new documents and signatures. Families on ComCare whose circumstances have changed during the COVID-19 situation may also approach SSOs for a review of their current ComCare Short-to-Medium-Term support. Those who are newly placed on ComCare will receive at least six months of assistance1. 1 Some household may receive assistance for a shorter duration, if it is ascertained that within the next six months, they would be receiving other sources of income which they could tap on for their basic living expenses.
No, the applicant would not be eligible for the COVID-19 Support Grant as the grant supports those who are retrenched, placed on more than 3 months NPL or experienced at least 30% reduction in salary for more than 3 months, because of COVID-19. Those who have been unemployed prior to COVID-19 and require financial assistance may approach their nearest SSOs (go.gov.sg/locate-sso) to apply for financial assistance. ComCare provides financial assistance and comprehensive support to low-income individuals and families (with monthly household income of $1,900 and below, or a per capita income of $650 and below). If their income exceeds these guidelines, they may still approach the SSOs if they face financial difficulties. The SSOs will assess their circumstances and needs, and provide assistance accordingly.
No, the applicant must be a Singapore Citizen (SC) or Permanent Resident (PR). Foreigners are not eligible for the grant.
MSF has expanded the eligibility criteria of the scheme and is progressively rolling out our system enhancements to cater to the different groups of affected employees:  Applicants who have lost their jobs and are currently unemployed or who are placed involuntary NPL for at least three consecutive months, can start applying from 4 May 2020.Applicants who had their monthly salary reduced by at least 30% for a period of at least three consecutive months can start applying from 11 May 2020.All applications for the COVID-19 Support Grant will remain open until 30 Sep 2020. You can apply during this period from 9am to 6pm daily at go.gov.sg/CSG.
Applicants will be informed of the status of their application via SMS. Applicants can also check on the status of their application by either emailing Ask_SSO@msf.gov.sg or calling the ComCare hotline at1800-222-0000.
Applicants will be informed of the outcome of his/her application in about 2 weeks if all the required documents are in order.
When an application is submitted successfully, applicants will receive an automated acknowledgement message assigning them a reference number. The acknowledgement will also state that they will be informed of the outcome of their application in about 2 weeks upon submission of all documents. If the applicant has included his/her email address, a similar acknowledgement will be sent to the email address, together with a copy of the completed application form. Applicants who do not receive these notifications should resubmit their online application.
After the applicant has been informed of the rejected application, applicants can re-apply online and submit the correct document. The online system will not allow re-application for the same NRIC while the application is still being processed.
Applicants can email Ask_SSO@msf.gov.sg or call the ComCare hotline at 1800-222-0000 for assistance. If they are unable to email or call, they can approach their nearest SSO (go.gov.sg/locate-sso) which will guide them through the online application form.
The applicant can submit the details of both jobs, via the loss income form.
The applicant may reapply and can receive the grant if he/she meets all the eligibility criteria.
If an applicant’s circumstances have changed, he/she can apply for the COVID-19 Support Grant again.
Applicants should apply for the COVID-19 Support Grant online at https://www.go.gov.sg/CSG (applications open from 4 May 2020 for applicants who lost their job or are placed on involuntary NPL). Applicants will need a SingPass account, supporting documents, and a valid bank account. However, if the person is serving a Quarantine Order or Stay-Home Notice and is unable to physically apply and does not know how to apply online, they can appoint a proxy to apply at the SSOs. For proxy applications, the proxy will need to submit the completed hardcopy application form, and present the applicant’s NRIC and relevant supporting documents, to the SSOs. If applicants are not able to apply online and have no proxy to apply and/or collect the assistance on their behalf, they can apply after their Quarantine Order or Stay-Home Notice has ended. Applications will remain open until 30 Sep 2020.
Members of public can visit https://www.singpass.gov.sg/singpass/register/instructions for instructions on how to set up/register their SingPass account. Members of public who have forgotten their SingPass password can visit https://www.singpass.gov.sg/singpass/onlineresetpassword/userdetail to reset their password.
Applicants are required to have a bank account in order to receive the COVID-19 Support Grant. Applicants will have to open a bank account if they do not have a bank account.
Applicants are advised to contact their bank to find out branch details. Below are the steps to determine bank branch details for some banks (applicants should check with their respective banks for latest information).For POSB account holders (9-digit account number):- Bank Code: 7171- Branch Code: 081- Branch Name: POSB Bank Ltd.For DBS account holders (10-digit account number):- Bank Code: 7171- Branch Code: First 3 digits of your DBS account number. For example for account no. 123-4-567890 the Branch Code is 123- Branch Name: DBS Bank Ltd. For OCBC account holders (10 or 12-digit account number):- Bank Code: 7339- Branch Code: The first three numbers of your OCBC account number are branch codes. Example of OCBC Bank account numbers: 555-1-234567 where 555 is the branch code, 501-123956-001 where 501 is the branch code.For UOB account holders (10-digit account number):- Bank Code: 7375- Branch Code: Please use the first 3 digits of your UOB account number and refer to Appendix A to retrieve the corresponding bank and branch code from the following document http://www.uob.com.sg/assets/pdfs/global/achcode.pdf. For example: For account 101-123-456-7, please use 101 to refer to Appendix A to retrieve the Bank Code 7375 and Branch code 001.
Applicants who have found employment within the period of the COVID-19 Support Grant support will continue to receive the grant until it expires at the end of the third month. The grant may assist them during the transition period before they start working.
Each recipient can receive the Grant once.
Low-income individuals can apply for ComCare assistance. ComCare provides financial assistance and comprehensive support to low-income individuals and families (with monthly household income of $1,900 and below, or a per capita income of $650 and below). If their income exceeds these guidelines, they may still approach the SSOs if they face financial difficulties. The SSOs will assess their circumstances and needs, and provide assistance accordingly.
For SCs/PRs who have lost their jobs or have been involuntarily placed on NPL, the COVID-19 Support Grant provides up to $800 in monthly cash assistance for three months and employment/training support. For SCs/PRs who had their salary reduced by least 30% due to the ongoing COVID-19 situation, the COVID-19 Support Grant provides up to $500 monthly cash assistance for three months. The ComCare Short-To-Medium-Term Assistance (SMTA) provides assistance for low-income and vulnerable households who require support for a temporary period due to various reasons including being unable to work due to illness or having to care for dependants. The amount and duration of SMTA varies across households depending on their needs, profile, and size. Assistance may include cash for daily living expenses, assistance with household bills, medical expenses and/or other support.
Recipients of the Support Grant who have lost their jobs are required to participate in job search and/or retraining programmes under Workforce Singapore (WSG), Employment and Employability Institute (e2i) and/or SkillsFuture Singapore. SSOs will facilitate this link-up. This is to better ensure their financial stability beyond the assistance period. Recipients of the Support Grant who are placed on involuntary NPL are encouraged to sign up for Skillsfuture Singapore (SSG) courses.
To make help more accessible, officers from the SSOs may conduct video/phone interviews with applicants to verify the identity and details of their applications. SSO officers will:Identify themselves and purpose of the call and seek the applicant’s consent to proceed with the phone interview.Contact applicants only if they have applied for financial assistance or the COVID-19 Support Grant, or sought financial help through other government agencies.Provide applicants with an authorised email address xxx@msf.gov.sg to submit supporting documents.Provide pre-paid envelopes for applicants to mail back the supporting documents for physical submissions. All applicants are strongly encouraged to mail the supporting documents. If they are unable to do so, they may physically bring the documents to the SSOs.Alternatively, applicants can call the ComCare hotline number 1800-222-0000 to verify. Our hotline team will email the relevant SSO for verification. An SSO Officer will contact the applicant and share the verified information (date and time of the applicant’s earlier call to the Comcare hotline as “proof”) and request for permission to proceed with the phone interview.
Please do not do so during this period when circuit breaker measures are in place. The intention of these measures is to significantly reduce movements and social interactions to lower the risk of transmission across different households. You could consider using different digital means (e.g. video calls, phone calls, etc.) to keep in contact during this time.
ROM has suspended its services in line with the Government's major circuit breaker measures to battle the COVID-19 transmission. This is for the safety of the couples, their guests, as well as the community.
ROM will reschedule all appointments for verification of documents and solemnization of marriage, at ROM and external venues, scheduled during the circuit breaker. Our officers will be in touch with affected couples. We will waive all fees for changes due to the COVID-19 situation.
Given the current COVID-19 situation, we strongly advise you to postpone your appointment for your own safety as well as that of your guests and solemniser. Circuit breaker measures have been introduced and everyone is to stay home. Contact is limited to immediate family members living in the same household during this period.
This is allowed. However, do keep changes and any movement and travel in this regard to a minimum, where possible, to lower the risk of transmission across different households.
Yes, face-to-face access arrangements are allowed, if these arrangements have been in place before the circuit breaker period. However, please keep movement and travel to a minimum to lower the risk of transmission across different households, given the latest measures put in place by the government.
Divorce Support Specialist Agencies (DSSAs) have suspended all face-to-face services during the circuit breaker period to reduce the risk of community transmissions. SESV services are also suspended. From 4 May onwards, the DSSAs will start offering remote access services via online platforms for those with SESV orders. You may contact the DSSA for details.
Parents are advised to facilitate continued access for their child and may wish to note that not doing so may result in a breach of the terms of their court order. Face-to-face access is still allowed with movement and travel kept to a minimum. Parents should co-operate with each other, and find practical and suitable solutions that serve the best interests of their children while complying with the circuit breaker measures. Co-parenting is important to enable children to continue to develop well. Studies show that acrimony between divorced parents can affect children adversely. Parents should therefore try to put aside their differences and make decisions in the best interests of their children. If there is mutual agreement, parents can also consider varying the arrangements or arranging access remotely through telephone, video calls or other online platforms. Parents who are still unable to reach an agreement may seek their own legal advice or email the Family Justice Courts Registry at fjcourts_family_registry@fjcourts.gov.sg for issues relating to custody and access. Turning to the court for the enforcement of access orders should be the last resort. Parents can seek counselling and emotional support during difficult times.
Parents are advised to facilitate continued access for their child and may wish to note that not doing so may result in a breach of the terms of their court order. Face-to-face access is still allowed with movement and travel kept to a minimum. Parents should co-operate with each other, and find practical and suitable solutions that serve the best interests of their children while complying with the circuit breaker measures. Co-parenting is important to enable children to continue to develop well. Studies show that acrimony between divorced parents can affect children adversely. Parents should therefore try to put aside their differences and make decisions in the best interests of their children. If there is mutual agreement, parents can also consider varying the arrangements or arranging access remotely through telephone, video calls or other online platforms. Parents who are still unable to reach an agreement may seek their own legal advice or email the Family Justice Courts Registry at fjcourts_family_registry@fjcourts.gov.sg for issues relating to custody and access. Turning to the court for the enforcement of access orders should be the last resort. Parents can seek counselling and emotional support during difficult times..
Parents are strongly advised to facilitate continued access for their child. They should note that they could be breaching the terms of their court orders if they do not comply with existing orders. There are a variety of reasons why a child is reluctant to participate in access. You are encouraged to support your child by addressing his/her emotions regarding the access. It is important to show your child that you will support his/her access with your ex-spouse. Parents can seek counselling and emotional support during difficult times for themselves or their child.
You can facilitate remote access through telephone, video calls or other available online platforms that you and your ex-spouse agree on. The parent with care and control of the child (care parent) will need to assist the child by setting up the session and encouraging the children to participate in the remote session with the access parent. Care parents are advised to provide some space for the child to interact independently with the access parent. For a younger child, aged 5 years old and below, the care parent may need to be physically around to assist the child but should allow the child to interact with the access parent without disruptions. Parents having access may find creative ways to connect with the child e.g. use online games. To complement remote access, parents may also encourage their child to send emails, letters or cards to access parents in order to stay in touch. The children may send appropriate pictures or videos of themselves to the access parent as well. The length of the remote sessions will depend on the attention span and developmental stage of the child.
The Courts continue to conduct hearings for urgent and essential matters. Please seek your own legal advice. Parents may also email the Family Justice Courts Registry at fjcourts_family_registry@fjcourts.gov.sg for issues relating to custody and access.
Divorce Support Specialist Agencies (DSSAs) can provide counselling support for your or your child. You may contact the DSSA near you. Please refer to this link for their contacts: https://www.msf.gov.sg/Divorce-Support/Divorce-Support/Divorce-Support-Specialist-Agencies/Pages/Overview-of-DSSAs.aspx Those above 18 years old can also contact CPH Online Counselling at www.cphonlinecounselling.sg. This service allows you to seek help anonymously. Live chat services by CPH Online Counselling are available from Monday to Friday, 9am to 9pm, and Saturday, 10am to 2pm (excluding public holidays). Alternatively, you can choose to email and write to CPH Online Counselling anytime, at your own convenience. A counsellor will respond to your email within 3 working days. This is a complimentary service.
No. Public playgrounds and condominium facilities, such as playgrounds, gyms and pools, will be closed. Children should also refrain from playing in common areas such as HDB corridors and void decks.Children may visit public spaces around their immediate neighbourhood, for example public parks. They should do so only with members of their households. Safe distancing measures must be observed at all times.Members of public are also advised to return to their homes promptly and not linger.
You should avoid doing so, to minimize the risk of transmission due to frequent interactions between households.
No. Parents should suspend services of their day-time nannies so as to minimise the risk of transmission across different households.Parents are encouraged to care for their children within their own households. Employers are requested to exercise the necessary flexibility to support parents who are working from home during this time as having to care for their children personally might take a toll on their work productivity.To support our essential service workers we are allowing exemptions from the restriction for the following families who can continue to tap on the grandparents for childcare support on a daily basis:Both parents are essential service workers and unable to work from home.One parent is a healthcare professional (e.g. doctor, nurse, allied health professional , support care staff, etc) and is unable to work from from home.One parent is an essential service worker who is unable to work from home and have a child/children below the age of three (this is in recognition that younger children are typically taken care of at home and need more attention).Preschools will also continue to prioritise limited service provision for families without alternative care where:Both parents are essential service workers (non-healthcare workers) orOne parent is a healthcare professional.
The circuit breaker is an important public health measure to stem the spread of the COVID-19 virus and to safeguard the health all Singaporeans during this pandemic. It is in the best interest of your children and family to stay at home during this period. For parents working from home, we fully empathise that it can be challenging to juggle caring for our loved ones and maintaining the fullest commitment to our work. However, these are exceptional times and we each need to make adjustments to our lives to collectively curb the transmission of COVID-19. We need to limit the attendance in schools/preschools to reduce the risks of transmission. Employers are encouraged to exercise flexibility and understanding to employees during this period.
During the circuit breaker period, preschools remain open to serve a limited group of families. They remain open for families with no alternative caregiving arrangements and where (a) both parents are essential service workers (non-healthcare workers) working away from home or (b) one parent is a healthcare worker working away from home. Parents may contact their existing preschool if the child is already enrolled with a centre. If your child is not enrolled with a centre. If your child is not enrolled with a centre. If your child is not enrolled with a preschool, you can find one using ECDA's Preschool Search Portal (http://go.gov.sg/ecda-psp) and contact the centre directly.
For parents who are both working in essential services (non-healthcare workers) and are unable to secure alternative care arrangements, you may approach your child's school or Special Education (SPED) school for assistance.
You may refer to the list of essential services listed here: https://go.gov.sg/essential-services
You should avoid doing so during this period, to minimise the risk of transmission, especially to elderly parents, due to frequent interactions between households.Grandparents can continue to care for their grandchildren if the grandchildren stay with them throughout this period. They must remain in the same household throughout the period, as movement between households should be avoided to reduce the risk of transmission and to protect our seniors who are most vulnerable to COVID-19.While most parents would be working from home, there would be some households where parents have to continue going to work during this period. These are workers in our essential services, especially our healthcare workers who are on the frontline working on shifts and on weekends, when childcare centres may not be available, and may be activated at any time of the day to respond to the COVID-19 situation. They will face additional difficulties which may be unnecessarily stressful for these essential service personnel. For very young children, we also recognise that it is difficult for them to be away from their parents for long periods of time, and adjusting to new caregivers that they are unfamiliar with would be challenging.Therefore, we will be implementing exemptions for the following families, who may continue to tap on the grandparents for childcare support on a daily basis:Both parents are essential service workers and unable to work from home;One parent is a healthcare professional (e.g. doctor, nurse, allied health professional, support care staff) and is unable to work from home; andOne parent is an essential service worker who is unable to work from home, and have a child/children below the age of three.Parents requiring assistance may contact ECDA at contact@ecda.gov.sg or 67359213.Families who are relying on the grandparents for childcare on a daily basis are advised to take the necessary safe distancing precautions to protect the elderly. Observe personal hygiene and try to reduce interaction time as far as possible when visiting their home. Do not visit when unwell.
Parents/guardians can provide carious forms of documentation, for example, a letter from your employer, your staff pass etc.
The fee offsets are only extended to Singaporean children not attending preschool and student care during the circuit breaker period.
If you suspect that a child is abused in any way, please do not hesitate to contact one of the following to seek advice or help:Child Protection Service Helpline (1800 777 0000)HEART @ Fei Yue Child Protection Specialist Centre (6819 9170)Big Love Child Protection Specialist Centre (6445 0400)SAFE SPACE Child Protection Specialist Centre (6266 0171)If there is an emergency where a child has been harmed or is in imminent danger, please call the Police at 999 immediately.
Please ask your existing centre-based care provider to make an application on your behalf to the Agency of Integrated Care (AIC).
Yes, you can continue to accompany your elderly parent to medical appointments if there are no other alternatives (such as deferring non-essential appointments) but please take additional precautions such as wearing a mask and ensuring good personal hygiene while you are in contact with him or her.As for purchase of essential supplies, we strongly recommend for family members to support their elderly relatives who do not stay with them by bringing them groceries, food and daily necessities. This is to avoid seniors having to make trips out of the home for such activities. Seniors should stay at home as far as possible.
Yes, you may continue to provide assistance to her for her daily needs, but unless absolutely necessary, this should not be done with physical interaction. If you have any physical interaction, please take the necessary safe distancing precautions, such as observing personal hygiene and ensuring your hands are clean, minimising physical contact and maintaining a safe separation as much as possible. Do not visit if you are unwell.If you know of a senior e.g. neighbour, friend, family member, who needs assistance with their daily needs, please contact the AIC hotline at 1800-650-6060.
Home personal care will be available for seniors who live alone, or seniors who live only with another frail person or person with disability, or if the senior’s only caregiver is an essential service worker. If you know of seniors in such a situation you may apply for continuation of service through the senior’s existing home personal care provider, or call the AIC hotline at 1800-650-6060.
It is far preferable to stop this at an individual level, as you will be coming into contact with other people, and then with the seniors and vulnerable persons. However, organisations and groups distributing essential aid (e.g. food) to vulnerable persons and families are allowed to continue their activities, but these should be limited to critical aid and supplies, and the necessary precautions must be taken. MSF’s advisory on Essential Aid Distribution (8 Apr 2020) provides more details (available at www.msf.gov.sg/media-room/Pages/COVID-19-advisory.aspx).Please check with your host organisation whether it has been pre-cleared to continue with its activities. Per MSF’s advisory, if you are an organisation or group seeking to provide such services, please submit the necessary information to the National Council of Social Services (NCSS). MOH-subvented providers for meal deliveries do not need to submit additional information to NCSS.For persons who are unable to buy or prepare food on their own, please contact the AIC Hotline at 1800-650-6060 for referral to a meal delivery service.All other organisations/ groups providing aid are encouraged to engage known aid recipients remotely (via telephone, online, video-conference). This includes befriending services to check on the well-being of the elderly.
To protect our seniors, we should minimise face-to-face interaction where possible. You may wish to contact him/her via the phone or video call instead, and encourage him/her to stay active by doing exercises at home, some of which can be accessed via the TV and online programmes which have been put in place for seniors.You can also check in on him/her when you help to bring over groceries, food and daily necessities, but try to reduce interaction time as far as possible. Please take the necessary safe distancing precautions while you are there, such as observing personal hygiene and ensuring your hands are clean, minimising physical contact and maintaining a safe separation as much as possible. Do not visit if you are unwell.We understand that this is a difficult adjustment for many families, and these measures go against our instinct to want to demonstrate frequent care and attention to our loved ones. But the elderly and vulnerable are most susceptible to severe COVID-19 infection, and we should refrain from exposing them to the risk of COVID-19 as far as possible by minimising physical interactions with them.
Please contact the AIC hotline at 1800-650-6060.
Yes, should you know of any senior requiring assistance with their daily needs, please contact the AIC hotline at 1800-650-6060.
For the safety of those around you, you are required to stay in your room at all times during the 14-day SHN period. Usage of hotel facilities are not allowed. WIFI will be available, and meals will be catered for you. Free laundry services will also be provided.
No, you are not under quarantine orders and are not required to have a dedicated room and toilet if this is not feasible. However, you should remain in your place of residence at all times during the 14-day period.
Returnees at the SHN designated facilities will have their own room/ toilet, and will be provided all their meals, so that they may avoid physical contact with other individuals. There will be WIFI provided so that you can continue your studies or work, or stay in touch with your family. Free laundry services are also provided.
No visitors are allowed to enter the dedicated SHN hotels. This is necessary to help to keep your family and loved ones safe. However, family can pass packages to the staff at the facility.
Persons under SHN have to remain in their place of residence at all times during the 14 day period. This would similarly apply to those staying in assigned SHN designated facilities.
There will be dedicated transport to bring you from airport directly to the designated facility. If there are essential items that you require, your family can pass these items to the staff at the facility.
PSHN should defer their travel plans until completion of entire 14-day duration of SHN.
Returnees who are currently in Singapore serving out their SHN should continue to do so at their place of residence, including hotels. This is to manage the limited capacity and prioritise fresh returnees. Given that UK/US returnees accounted for the highest share of imported cases thus far, we had previously allowed UK/US returnees who arrived in Singapore prior to 25 Mar 2359H to switch to our dedicated facilities. For further assistance, please submit your request at www.go.gov.sg/shnhotelneeds.
It is not useful to send persons who do not have symptoms to the doctor/ hospital for testing. Such individuals will not be offered diagnostic testing, and will be asked to return home.
You are urged to serve your 14-day SHN notice at the same location to minimize social contact and exposure. If you have no other options and are required to move, we will assist to escalate to the relevant authorities (PA) to consider your request. You are to inform of the reason you need to move, where you are currently at, where and when you will be moving and how you will move there. For PSHN+ with extenuating circumstances and require moving, please provide the details via the online form at www.go.gov.sg/shnhotelneeds. You may also contact 6812 5555 for more information.
As part of socially responsibility, we recommend for PSHNs to go to the nearest available PHPC to minimise the contact with the general public.
Your family members may continue to live with you. However, you and your family should continue to monitor your health and observe good personal hygiene practices. Do not share food, crockery, utensils and other personal hygiene items. If you become unwell, avoid contact with your family members and seek medical attention immediately.
Persons who have returned from the affected areas are advised to inform their employers or schools that they are on SHN. This is so that your employer or school can provide the necessary assistance to facilitate your SHN. For persons with pre-scheduled appointments, they are also urged to contact the clinic and inform of their SHN status to confirm that the clinic will see them on the scheduled date/time before contacting PA. They should also defer all non-essential medical appointment after their SHN period.
No, SHN designated facilities will be assigned to returnees from the US and UK upon their arrival in Singapore. There will be no booking required.
Persons staying at the designated SHN facilities must not leave their designated location for any reason. Should they require assistance for daily needs, such as the purchase of groceries, they should make arrangements with their relatives/friends. Those who require further assistance can submit a request at www.go.gov.sg/shnhotelneeds.
You are required to comply with the requirements as detailed in the SHN. You are strongly advised to comply as a precautionary measure to prevent transmission of disease in your workplace, place of education, or to members of public. The Government of Singapore will conduct checks to ensure that you comply with the SHN. If you violate the SHN, you may face the following penalties, as you have put the well-being of the wider community at risk:If you fail to comply with the SHN, you may be prosecuted under Section 21A of the Infectious Diseases Act; you are a Singapore Permanent Resident, Long-Term Visit Pass holder, Dependant’s Pass holder or Student’s Pass holder, your Re-Entry Permit or passes may be revoked or the validity shortened and you may be barred from entering Singapore for a specified period of time;If you are a foreign employee (including foreign domestic workers) issued with a work pass, your work pass may be revoked.If your child/ward is a full-time student attending a preschool, school or other educational institution in Singapore, your child/ward might be subjected to disciplinary action, including suspension or dismissal.For foreign students, this may include the cancellation of your child/ward’s Student’s Pass or Dependant’s Pass.
We will continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation closely. We will stand down these facilities when the importation risk has been addressed.
We have sufficient rooms to accommodate all returning Singaporeans who have to serve their 14-day SHN in dedicated facilities. The Government will continue to monitor the dynamic and evolving COVID-19 situation, and adjust our capacity accordingly.
Persons on SHN are responsible for informing their family members of their assigned SHN dedicated facility.
If you are unable to access the link in the SMS, you can email ICA to inform them at ICA_SHNQ@ica.gov.sg. Please provide your full name, identification number (NRIC/FIN) and details of your phone, such as brand and model. In the meantime, you may receive a phone call / house visit to verify your location. You will then need to explain to the officer that you did not receive the SMS and follow any instructions given by the officer to verify your location.  Please note that ICA officers will not ask for any financial information or request for money over the phone. All ICA officers carry an ICA warrant card for identification purposes during house visits.
If you did not receive the SMS, you may receive a phone call / house visit to verify your location. You will then need to explain to the officer that you did not receive the SMS and follow any instructions given by the office to verify your location.Please note that ICA officers will not ask for any financial information or request for money over the phone. All ICA officers carry a ICA warrant card for identification purposes during house visits.
Due to the surge of people going for the swab test recently, it may take at least 3 working days before you the results are ready.If you had your test done at Public Healthcare Institutes (PHI) (i.e. not at NCID, checkpoints, NHPL), you will be able to view your results via the HealthHub application on your mobile phone. If you do not receive any news and am unable to see any results on the application after a week, please call the hospital/polyclinic directly to enquire.If your swab test was done at checkpoints or at NCID, you may call the MOH Emergency Hotline at 1800-333-9999 if you do not receive any news after a week.
In general, pets are not allowed in SHN dedicated facilities. Those returning with pets should make their own arrangements for pet accommodation for 14 days (e.g. cared by family and friends). However, those who have extenuating circumstances that require them to be with their pet (e.g. pet is an emotional support animal) may submit a request through www.go.gov.sg/shnhotelneeds.
You are urged to call your clinic and declare that you are under SHN and check if the clinic will continue to see you during the pre-arranged appointment. Wherever possible, we urge you to defer non-emergency appointment to after your SHN. For One-off appointment (within SHN period) We will record the details of your appointment and you will need to contact us again, with your Full Name, last 4 digits of NRIC, residential address and contact number when you leave your home and when you return home on the day of your appointment. You are urged to wear a mask, take private transport/taxi, practice precautionary measures such as safe distancing during your travel to the appointment. You are also only allowed to travel directly to the place of medical appointment and directly back home - you should not be heading anywhere else. For recurring appointments (within SHN period) We will record the details of your appointments and our team who is handling recurring medical appointments will get back to you.
You should contact your QO Agent (Cisco Officer) via the contact provided. Otherwise, you can contact MOH Emergency Line at 1800-333-9999 for all medical assistance.For food assistance, please seek the help of you friends, family or neighbours or via food delivery services.
It is mandatory for all returnees (whether SC/PR/LTP holders) to serve their SHN in designated facilities. Those who have arranged to serve out their SHN at other accommodation should inform their accommodation provider accordingly. If you have incurred cancellation fees, you may request for further assistance through this form at www.go.gov.sg/shnhotelneeds, and we will contact you for more details.
For US/UK, Before 25 March 2020 2359 hours You can submit your request via www.go.gov.sg/shnhotelneeds. Your request will be considered by the team handling PSHN who had returned from US/UK and serving their SHN at the dedicated facilities. For US/UK, After 25 March 2020 2359 hours From 25 March 2020, 2359 hours, returnees from UK/US will be required to serve their SHN in a dedicated facility (e.g. hotels). Transportation will be arranged to send the returnees directly from the airport to the hotels. Returnees can contact the SHN helpline at 6812 5555 for more information. If you wish to change your hotel location (with compelling reasons), we will escalate to the team to handle your request. The team will get in touch with you. For France, Switzerland, India, ASEAN countries, before 5 April 2020 2359 hours Returnees from France, Switzerland, India, ASEAN countries who arrive in Singapore prior to 5 April 2020 2359 hours may not apply to switch to the dedicated facilities. This is to manage the limited capacity and prioritise fresh returnees. For France, Switzerland, India, ASEAN countries, after 5 April 2020 2359 hours From 5 April 2020, 2359 hours, returnees from France, Switzerland, India, ASEAN countries will be required to serve their SHN in a dedicated facility (e.g. hotels). Transportation will be arranged to send the returnees directly from the airport to the hotels. Returnees can contact the SHN helpline at 6812 5555 for more information. If you wish to change your hotel location (with compelling reasons), we will escalate to the team to handle your request. The team will get in touch with you.
Under the SHN Support Programme, $100/day allowance is given to employer or self-employed person. Please visit MOM website for information on the SHN/LOA support programme.
You may refer to https://go.gov.sg/sgn-shnaccom for a list of hotels to serve out your 14-days SHN. Do note that you are required to declare that you are unable SHN and will stay for the full 14-days regardless of which form of accommodation you may choose.
If there is a change in contact details during your SHN period, please update ICA by either emailing them at ICA_SHNQ@ica.gov.sg or through the ICA online feedback form at https://go.gov.sg/icashn.
Hotels who wish to become a designated SHN facility may contact STB.
You should continue to stay home and monitor your health. MOH will contact you if you are identified as a close contact and serve you a Quarantine Order (QO). If you need further clarification, you can call the MOH Emergency Hotline at 1800-333-9999Should you develop any symptoms prior to that, PSHN should make an appointment with the nearest PHPC and call PA to report the clinic name, appointment time, time of leaving and time of return. For PSHN+, please contact your hotel staff.
Member of public can report any information on those who do not comply with SHN requirements to ICA via www.go.gov.sg/reportSHNbreach or call 6812 5555.
Please submit supporting documents to us at PA_QSM@pa.gov.sg and include details of the time and places your will be travelling to so that we can escalate your case for approval. Please also indicate your mode of transport between the locations.
At the end of their SHN period, PSHN can go home if they have been serving their SHN at alternative accommodations. However, if they have also been issued medical leave, they will need to continue to stay home during the medical leave and are advised to take the necessary precautions during their travels back home.There is no requirement to submit a request to change accommodation once your SHN ends.
There is no need for masks or other protective equipment. The delivery can be conducted in such a way as to minimise contact with the person under SHN. The SHN is a precautionary measure and persons under SHN are not close contacts of confirmed cases.
Diagnostic testing is available for symptomatic individuals who are admitted to hospital on suspicion of infection. If you develop fever, cough or breathlessness, or are feeling unwell, you should seek medical attention.Your doctor will assess and refer you to the hospital if necessary.
Regardless of the outcome of your test results, all PSHN (including PSHN+) must serve out the 14-day SHN period.
It is mandatory for all returnees to serve out their SHN in designated facilities. This includes those arriving via the land checkpoints, including those who will be driving or riding.
The cost of staying in these facilities will be paid for by Government, with the exception of returnees who had left Singapore from 27 March. As previously announced, these individuals will have to pay for the full cost of staying in these facilities, as they decided to disregard the travel advisory against all travel abroad issued on 18 March 2020.
To protect Singaporeans and further ring-fence the risk of community transmission form imported cases, from 9 April 2359H, it is mandatory for all returnees (whether SC/PR/LTP holders) to serve their SHN in designated facilities.
All our dedicated facilities follow strict infection control measures and precautions, adhere to proper security arrangements, and are run by staff trained by MOH. They are suitable and safe for returnees too serve out their SHN. Similar to all other persons under SHN, returnees staying in our assigned SHN dedicated facilities have to remain in their place of residence at all times during the 14 day period. For those with extenuating circumstances, such as medical conditions or mobility issues, they should provide the details in this form at www.go.gov.sg/shnhotelneeds. They can also contact the SHN Helpline at 6812 5555 for more information.
The notice applies only to persons returning from any countries. However, you should minimise contact with persons under SHN. Those on SHN and others who are living together should continue to monitor their health, observe good personal hygiene and seek medical attention if unwell.
PA will assist to arrange for a medical appointment at the nearest PHPC. Do note that as the employer of the FDW must bear all the medical expenses of the FDW.
No. As you are not a close contact of confirmed cases, SHN requires you to remain in your place of residence at all times for a 14-day period. You are not to leave your residence, even if it is to purchase food and essentials. If necessary, you may opt for home delivery services or enlist the assistance of others for your daily necessities.
If you and your family members are arriving together from the same flight, we will do our best to accommodate requests for you to stay together, and to provide the appropriate room size depending on your family size, subject to room availability.
If you are feeling well, you may no longer need to be confined to your place of residence and may carry on with your normal activities. If you are unwell, please see a doctor immediately. If you are on medical leave, you are advised to stay home and rest throughout the period of your medical leaves before heading back to work/school.
For life-threatening cases such as cardiac arrest, active seizures, breathlessness, major traumas and stroke, please call 995 directly for assistance. For non-emergencies medical assistance (such as cough, flu, sore throat, fever, scheduled medical appointments, refilling of prescription etc), you may contact your hotel front desk for assistance. If the person is diagnosed with the virus, he/she will be warded in hospital for treatment and will not return to the facility. The government will arrange for the room that the person had stayed in to be thoroughly cleaned according to guidelines from MOH/NEA.
For life-threatening cases such as cardiac arrest, active seizures, breathlessness, major traumas and stroke, please call 995 directly for assistance; and For non-emergencies (such as cough or fever, follow-up visits for chronic conditions, refilling of prescription, etc.):For Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and Long-Term Visit Pass holders and Short-Term Visitor NOT staying in hotels, you are advised to make an appointment with the nearest Public Health Preparedness Clinic (PHPC) or GP clinic, or to arrange for a house call by a GP (for those with mobility issues). Please inform the staff and doctor of your travel history and that you have been issued a SHN. After which, please call/use FormSG to report the clinic name, appointment time, time you leave and time you return home.;For students/ pre-school students, you can seek assistance from your school or MOE/ECDA; andFor foreign employees issued with a work pass, you should contact your employer.For confirmed cases, MOH will contact you to make the necessary arrangements to isolate you for your own safety and the safety of others. In the meantime, please continue to stay in your own room, monitor your health and practice the relevant precautionary measures such as wearing a mask and safe distancing.
For SHNs who are Singaporeans/PRs, you may call Comcare Hotline at 1800 222 0000 from Mon-Sun 7am – 12midnight. This is applicable if your household has at least one SC/PR staying with you. For SHNs who are on work passes, please approach your employers for means of lodging and food. For disputes, may refer to MOM via hotline 64385122 from Mon – Fri 8.30am – 1.30pm and Saturday 8.30am – 1pm. Closed on Sun/PH. For SHNs who are students, please approach your schools for assistance in terms of lodging and food. For Private Education Institutions (CEP): 67855785 from Mon – Fri 8.30am – 1.30pm and Saturday 8.30am – 1pm. Closed on Sun/PH.  For SHNs on Long-Term Visit Pass, you may let us know your needs so we can follow up.
PSHN are expected to be self-sufficient for their period of SHN. Please approach your family members or friends who are not under SHN for assistance or opt for home delivery services. If you require general assistance during the SHN period, please not the following:  a. For Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents, Long-Term Visit Pass holders and Short-Term Visitor NOT staying in hotels, who require food/grocery assistance because they have no one to help them, PA will assist to take down the relevant details and our CO colleagues will contact you to provide support, where applicable.  b. For Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents, Long-Term Visit pass holders and Short-Term Visitor NOT staying in hotels, who require assistance for medical supplies (e.g. top-up of prescription etc) because they have no one to help them, please call the clinic/polyclinic to enquire on the delivery option. If the options are not feasible, PA will assist to take down the relevant details and our CO colleagues will contact you to provide support, where applicable.  c. Foreign employees issued with a work pass should call their employers. If the employer fails to provide assistance, please call the Ministry of Manpower at 64385122; and  d. Students studying in Ministry of Education (MOE) schools, Institute of Technical Education, polytechnics, autonomous universities or private education institute may call their schools. Parents/guardians of pre-school children may call the Early Childhood Development Agency (ECDA) at 67359213.  e. Person serving SHN at designated isolation facilities, otherwise known as PSHN+ (e.g. returnees from US/UK from 25 Mar, 2359hrs and France, Switzerland, India and ASEAN countries from 5 April, 2359hrs, or from any other countries from 9 April 2359hrs, should approach the hotel staff to seek assistance. Any callers for PSHN+ who require medical assistance shall be escalated for GPP's assistance.
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) is a notification to travellers returning from all countries to stay home for 14 days, during which they should not leave their place of residence (except to seek medical help upon approval given by PA), so as to limit the risk of community spread. This is a precautionary measure taken to minimise the risk of imported cases of COVID-19. As at 23 March, 2359hrs, all short-term visitors (e.g. tourists etc) will not be allowed to enter or transit into Singapore.As at 25 March, 2359hrs, all persons returning or transiting through US/UK (PSHN+) shall serve their 14-day isolation at dedicated SHN facilities.From 29 March, 2359hrs, existing long-term visitors / student pass / those who are granted In-Principle Approval (IPA) who are not in Singapore yet will require entry approval from ICA.From 05 April, 2359hrs, all persons returning or transiting through France, Switzerland, India and ASEAN countries (PSHN+) shall serve their 14-day isolation at dedicated SHN facilities.From 09 April, 2359hrs, all Singaporeans, Permanent Residents, and Long-Term Pass holders returning from any country (PSHN+) shall serve their 14-day isolation at dedicated SHN facilities.
A GQF accommodates persons under quarantine who do not have suitable accommodation in Singapore to serve out their quarantine. Persons under Quarantine are those suspected to be a carrier of an infectious disease, or a contact of a person confirmed to have an infectious disease. An SHN designated facility is provided for those serving their SHN and are returning from selected countries which account for a higher share of imported cases. The SHN is a precautionary measure and persons under SHN will be required to stay in their rooms at the facility at all times.
Persons taking leave of absence are allowed to leave their place of residence to purchase daily necessities or to attend to important personal matters. Persons issued a SHN should remain in their place of residence at all times during the 14-day period.
You must remain in your place of residence at all times during the 14-day period. Do not leave your residence, even if it is to purchase food and essentials. If necessary, you may opt for home delivery services or enlist the assistance of others for your daily necessities.You should minimise contact with others, and avoid having visitors to your residence. You should maintain a record of persons you come into close contact with during this period.Monitor your health closely, i.e. twice daily for fever (i.e. ≥ 38°C) and respiratory symptoms such as cough and breathlessness.Maintain good personal hygiene, including regular hand washing with soap and water. Flush the toilet after use, and wash your hands before and after handling food or eating, and after going to the toilet.Do not touch your face.Cover your mouth when coughing or sneezing.Maintain good indoor ventilation.Carry out frequent cleaning of your place of residence.Do not share food, crockery, utensils and other personal hygiene items.Family members may continue to live with you and may continue with their daily activities. the SHN applies only to persons returning from affected areas listed in the advisory. Nonetheless, you should continue to monitor your health, observe good personal hygiene and seek medical attention if unwell.
These are designated facilities that have been deemed suitable for PSHN to serve out their SHN, and will include hotels.
Health advisories and latest information on the local disease situation is available on the Singapore Ministry of Health website at www.moh.gov.sg. For queries, please call the MOH general enquiry hotline at 6325 9220. For the latest global disease situation, you may wish to refer to information on the World Health Organization website at www.who.int.
This is a precautionary measure taken to minimise the risk of imported cases of COVID-19.
Hotels are being used as both SHN designated facilities and GQFs.
You will not be reimbursed for accommodation expenses incurred if you had arrived in Singapore from/via US/UK before 25 March, 2359hrs or France, Switzerland, India and ASEAN countries before 5 April, 2359hrs. For reimbursement of pre-booked expenses for persons arriving in Singapore from/via US/UK after 25 March, 2359hrs or France, Switzerland, India and ASEAN countries after 5 April, 2359hrs, you may submit a request at www.go.gov.sg/shnhotelneeds.
No. SHN will only take effect from 18 Feb, 2359. For persons under LOA, you will continue to complete your period of LOA.
They may continue with their daily activities as they did not travel to other countries and do not fall under this notice.
Yes. The hotels are cleaned rigorously according to guidelines from MOH and National Environment Agency (NEA).
For those with extenuating circumstances, such as medical conditions or mobility issues, they should provide the details in this form at www.go.gov.sg/shnhotelneeds. They can also contact the SHN Helpline at 6812 5555 for more information.
There will be enforcement to ensure compliance with the SHN requirements.
Application for the Temporary Relief Fund (TRF) and appeals for TRF have closed on 30 Apr 2020. You may wish to apply for COVID-19 Support Grant (CSG) online, which started on 04 May 2020, if you are eligibile.Eligibility criteria can be found at go.gov.sg/msf-csg-faqsYou can apply for CSG online at go.gov.sg/CSGIf you do not meet the eligibility criteria for CSG & need financial assistance, you may call ComCare hotline (1800-222-0000) to request for an appointment with your nearest SSO.
No, ComCare beneficiaries currently receive comprehensive support for their basic living expenses,including cash assistance, assistance with household bills, and assistance with medical bills. IfComCare beneficiaries require more assistance due to changes in financial circumstances, the SSOwill work with them to review their assistance package.
TRF recipients who are self-employed persons and meet the criteria for SIRS can also receive support from SIRS. Visit http://www.ntuc.com.sg/sirs for more information.
Please note that there are two document upload fields in the online application form. The first field is for applicant to upload document proof of income before COVID-19 (see S/N 7 in the online application form). The document to upload in the second field depends on which option is selected in Section B of the online application form (see S/N 8 in the online application form): If 'I have lost my job' option is selected, applicant will need to upload proof of job loss (i.e. retrenchment/ termination/ no-pay leave letter).If 'I have lost at least 30% of my personal income' option is selected, applicant will need to upload proof of income loss (i.e. monthly pay slip, CPF statement).Form.sg allows one document to be uploaded per field. If members of the public wish to submit more than one document per field, they can either (i) take one photo of all the relevant documents side by side, or (ii) use a photo collage app such as "Photo Grid/Pic Collage" to create a collage of photos of relevant documents to submit as one picture (document) online. The file size limit is 1mb.
SIRS helps Singaporeans self-employed person (SEPs) with less means and family support tide over this period of exrraordinary economic uncertainty. It is managed by NTUC. For more information and application, please visit www.ntuc.com.sg/sirs.
Members of public can visit https://www.abs.org.sg/consumer-banking/pay-now for instructions on how to set up their PayNow account.
You can submit your request at https://go.gov.sg/trf-refund-form (Login with SingPass). For those who want to return an unbanked TRF cheque or cashier's order, you may visit your nearest Social Service Office.
Provide supporting documents that show that you had lost your job or at least 30% of your income after 23 Jan 2020, when COVID-19 first occurred in Singapore. Examples include letter of retrenchment, termination of contract or payslips.
The Temporary Relief Fund is a one-off assistance scheme available only in April 2020, to help Singaporeans tide through the COVID-19 situation. The Temporary Relief Fund provides one-off support of $500 to SCs/PRs who lost their jobs or a substantial proportion of income due to COVID-19. After April 2020, households in need of financial assistance may apply for other assistance schemes that they are eligible for. ComCare Interim Assistance provides support to low-income households who need urgent and immediate financial assistance.
After receiving the SMS notification, applicants with a valid PayNow account will receive the payout on the next working day through their PayNow account. Applicants without a valid PayNow account will receive a crossed cheque in about 2 weeks.
The eligibility criteria for the Temporary Relief Fund (TRF) are as follows: Singapore Citizens or Permanent Residents aged 16 years and above. Was retrenched or suffered substantial (at least 30%) loss of personal income due to COVID-19. (Note: Loss of job or income must have taken place after 23 Jan 2020 when COVID-19 first occurred in Singapore)Had a gross monthly household income of ≤$10,000, or a gross monthly per capita income of ≤$3,100 prior to loss of job or income; andNot a current beneficiary of ComCare assistance, i.e. Long-Term Assistance, Short-to-Medium-Term Assistance, Interim Assistance. (Note: ComCare clients currently receive comprehensive support, and will be assisted by SSOs if they require more assistance due to changes in their financial circumstances) Full-time students and NSFs should not apply.
Please visit your nearest SSO or call the ComCare hotline (1800-222-0000). We will look into how we can help you.
We require supporting documents e.g. letter of retrenchment and payslips.  If you do not have these documents for valid reasons (e.g. you are a SEP who does not have payslips), you may make a self-declaration. Action will be taken against those who make false declarations.
Applicants should see an acknowledgement page after clicking the “Submit” button. Applicantswho do not see this acknowledgement page should resubmit their online application. Only 1 valid application is accepted per individual.
Once submitted, the online application cannot be cancelled or retrieved. If a wrong submission was made, applicants can approach the nearest SSO or CC to re-apply in person. Applicants should state that they are: (a) re-applying in person as their online application has error, (b) date of their online application, (c) which data field in their online application contains an error, so that the SSO/CC staff can record this during the manual application process.
Please click here for more information on the Temporary Relief Fund (TRF).
The Temporary Relief Fund provides interim assistance for Singaporeans who are affected by COVID-19's economic impact and who need immediate financial help with their basic living expenses. Singaporeans who need further support after April 2020 may be helped by other Government schemes, including the COVID-19 Support Grant which will assist SC/PR employees who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The COVID-19 Support Grant is available from 1 May 2020. Go to go.gov.sg/msf-covid19-support for a summary of support schemes for Singaporeans affected by COVID-19. Videos are also available at go.gov.sg/msf-covid19-support-videos.
